let's bring in Ari Goldberg he's an
Israeli political commentator and he's
joining us live from Tel Aviv welcome to
the aler NewsHour Mr Goldberg there are
more protests planned in Tel Aviv this
evening calling for the release of
Israeli captives in Gaza calling for a
deal between the Israeli government and
Hamas in order to secure that release we
have seen some of the biggest protests
in Israel's history recently can you
help us understand as we look ahead to
those protests why nanyu isn't SU able
to this public
pressure because this public pressure is
still perceived as partisan as motivated
by domestic Israeli political
considerations and Nel feels quite
comfortable uh being perceived as the
leader of the anti-protest side even if
he is attacked and criticized by
hundreds of thousands of Israelis
retaking to the street uh the General
broad Israeli consensus which says that
the war in excuse me the war in Gaza the
go stated goal of the destruction of
Hamas that these are still legitimate n
Builds on a broad support from all
Israelis for that which is why he as of
as of now Remains unfaced by these
demonstrations which really are probably
the largest Israel has ever seen so Mr
goldber would it be fair to say that
even if there are hundreds of thousands
of people out on the streets calling for
the release of captives as long as the
broader Israeli public supports the war
you cannot have both you cannot have the
release of captives as long as the war
goes
on uh not only fair to say that that
that is you know the truth uh I think a
lot of Israelis understand that uh I
think the size of the demonstrations and
the extent of the anger has to do with
this unresolved paradox because for long
months the Israeli public lived with the
understanding this is what it was told
by its government that the two stated
goals of the quote unquote war in Gaza
that is the return of the hostages and
the destruction of Hamas are both
commensurate and complimentary I think
the recent death of the six hostages uh
in a tunnel in RAF just minutes before
idea forces reached them made it clear
to many Israelis that these goals are
contradictory that as long because the
war goes on the hostages will not be
returned the demonstrations are a way
for Israelis to articulate a desire for
the war to end but it's very important
to say again and again and again that a
clear uh uh request a clear demand from
the broad public who's demonstrating
that the that the war must end is uh
something we have yet to hear uh in fact
uh a prominent group of demonstrators
called the high-tech protest that is
funded by uh senior high-tech leaders in
Israel just came up with a new slogan
last week the slogan is we'll bring them
back and go back that is we'll bring the
hostages back and go back to fight that
is the situation as far as Israeli
public opinion goes okay uh Mr Goldberg
today our lead story on Al jazer has
been the death the funeral of the
American Turkish activists and we've
heard from we've seen the international
criticism and condemnation of her
killing we've heard from the most senior
American officials saying that there
needs to be changes that the Israeli
Security Forces need to change how they
operate do you think that this killing
will lead to any
changes unfortunately I don't I think
the only thing that will lead to changes
will be very intense pressure from
Israel's allies particularly in
Washington I don't believe Israel has it
within it the political capacity and
even the political will to change the
way military forces act I'll I'll add
that actions in the West Bank are uh if
if the war in Gaza is somehow contested
military actions in the West Bank are
seen as a necessary part of Israel's uh
war on terror uh and there's a very very
broad overt consensus that supports them
so I fail to see uh any anybody in
Israel at the moment who's capable or
even Desiring of such Mr Goldberg it's
always great to get your thoughts um on
Israel that is Ari Goldberg joining us
live from Tel
Aviv thank you for having
me make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from aler